hello thanks for coming along my name is
Jay I am one of the teachers of e to
language what we're going to do in this
live class is this we're going to look
at IELTS writing task 2 and in
particular specifically we're going to
look at discuss both sides sometimes
this is just called discuss sometimes
it's called the discussion we're going
to look at this question type that you
might see so what I'm going to show you
is what I believe to be an IELTS 9 essay
what we're going to do is we're going to
write it sentence by sentence what we're
going to do is I'm going to show you how
to write the first sentence you're going
to then write the sentence next next
next until we've written the whole thing
from beginning to end from introduction
right through to conclusion there's
really only one way to get good at IELTS
writing and to get a high score that's
to do it that's to do it the other thing
you need is feedback if you are looking
for feedback or tutorials or anything
like that do check out WWE to language
calm cool so what's an IELTS 9 look like
it looks like this this is what I'm
going to show you how to write sentence
by sentence and you're going to follow
me and write your own first thing we
need to do is look at the question
prompt so on test a this is what you
will see in front of you now things will
be a little bit different on test day
because you've got an enormous amount of
pressure you've got all these people
sitting around you in the exam Center
you're holding a gray lead pencil and
you really need to know exactly what to
do as soon as you can start writing as
soon as they say you can start you
really need a plan you need a structure
so let's look at this question prompt
and go through it so you look at this
and you know you already know that
you've got to spend about 40 minutes on
the task and write about 250 words you
know that before
or you get to test a fine what you
really need to do is read this because
this is going to be different for each
well hopefully you don't have to take
the IELTS again and again and again but
each time they have the IELTS they have
a different question prompt for example
there are there are there are there is
advantages disadvantages si there's the
problem solution si there is what else
is there there's that there's that give
your opinion si this one is the
discussion si and let me show you why it
says some parents believe that learning
mathematics at school is redundant and
should not be taught while others
believe that it should remain a
foundational subject whether or not it
is used later in life discuss both sides
so we can see immediately just whoopsy
when we're doing let me go back we can
see immediately from this question
prompt in this part here it says discuss
both sides we know this is the
discussion si so usually what we do is
we look at the general statement first
because usually the question prompt has
a general statement and then it says
this side and that side but this one
doesn't I'm going to show you what to do
if that's the case on test day this one
definitely has two sides side one says
some parents believe that learning
mathematics at school is redundant and
should not be taught side two says
others believe that it should remain a
foundational subject whether or not it
is used later in life so you can see
those two sides side one in the blue
corner side two in the red corner one
side believes that mathematics is
irrelevant it's unimportant it's not a
good thing to learn at school it's a
waste of time
so I do believe that it's still a
foundational subject and should be
taught in schools even though it may be
a little bit irrelevant what you have to
do is discuss both sides what you don't
do in this one is give your opinion
some of these question prompts will say
discuss both sides and give your opinion
some of them will just say discuss both
sides so the one we're going to look at
in this class is the one without your
opinion you should not give your opinion
in this essay because the question
prompt doesn't ask you to it
specifically says just to discuss both
sides don't give your opinion maybe next
week I'll show you how to give your
opinion do this one and give your
opinion but for now let's move on
we need an essay structure because that
clock is ticking down from 40 minutes we
need a plan to know exactly what to do
and this is the broad overview of that
essay we're going to have four
paragraphs introduction paragraph one
two in the conclusion what we're going
to do in our paragraphs is the first one
we'll discuss side one the second
paragraph will discuss side two overall
this is the structure that you want to
use I'm going to show you this sentence
by sentence what you'll notice is that
the introduction and the conclusion are
in fact exactly the same let's have a
look at that I'll show you what I mean
sentence 1 of your introduction says
write a general statement sentence one
of your conclusion says write a general
statement sentence 2 of your
introduction says rewrite the question
prompt in your own words
sentence 2 of your conclusion says
rewrite the question prompt in your own
words sentence 3 of the introduction
says tell the reader what you will tell
them sentence 3 of the conclusion says
tell the reader what you told them
there's a tiny little difference in verb
tense here but apart from that your
introduction in your conclusion will be
exactly will follow the exact exact same
formula which by the way is fantastic
because on test day you're not
memorizing lots of crazy stuff
you're just memorizing three sentences
those three sentences cover your
introduction and your conclusion how
good is that
then if we look at the paragraphs it's
the same thing
paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 follow the
same structure sentence 1 restate side 1
restate side to sentence to give reasons
sentence 3 give examples sentence 4
conclude side 1 conclude side to the
same exact structure for each paragraph
which is fantastic because what you're
ultimately doing is memorizing 7
different sentence types there's seven
different sentence types become your
essay so that's cool
that is good how do we do it right how
do you write the introduction well let's
look at sentence 1 I want you to take
out a pen and paper I want you to follow
me we're going to write an entire essay
what we firstly need to do is really
write a general statement usually I
would say rewrite a general statement
because usually the question prompt has
a general statement and you just
paraphrase it you just rewrite it but
this one doesn't so what we're going to
have to do is make up a general
statement so if we remember our question
prompt it said some parents believe that
learning mathematics at school is
redundant and should not be taught while
others believe that it should remain a
foundational subject whether or not it
is used later in life what I wrote my
general statement that I wrote based on
this I took the information from this
and I wrote a pretty simple sentence
that says whether or not to teach
mathematics at school is becoming
increasingly controversial so I haven't
gone into the two sides I haven't
mentioned my opinion I've just simply
said the teaching mathematics is
becoming increasingly controversial I
want you to write a general statement
not talking about the different sides of
the argument not giving your opinion
just say something based on this a
general statement you have one minute
and I'm gonna drink my hot chocolate
ten seconds all right let me check that
chat hmm
cool Smitha learning mathematics at
school has become a topic of debate
among parents beautiful that is spot-on
well done you've just you haven't talked
about the different sides
you haven't said your opinion you've
just said something broad a background
statement about this question prompt it
has become a topic of debate among
parents perfect because what we want to
do with our introduction is we want to
start broad and then we want to come in
like this and so we give a broad
background sentence call Maria says
there is controversy between pair or
among parents on whether math should be
taught mathematics should be taught
perfect well done good Roddy says
mathematics in schools is becoming a
controversial issue in recent years good
that's fine sharif says it's very
controversial which not quite you need
to mention mathematics in there cool
let's push on well done because the next
sentence we write is well it's less
creative it's less creative what we need
to do is rewrite the question prompt in
our own words to say the same thing so
if we look at the question prompt again
we need to include both side 1 and side
2 in this you can write a single
sentence for example you can write one
sentence that paraphrases or rewrites
side 1 in your own words you can write
another sentence that rewrites side 2 in
your own words or you can do what I did
which is I combined both sides into one
sentence and I said this I say
blue side while some parents think that
learning mathematics is no longer
relevant other parents maintain that it
is an important subject cool see if you
can do that I wanted to rewrite this
question pumps whoopsy in your own words
you can write two sentences or one that
combines both sides I'll give you two
minutes to write a beautiful sentence
so I'm just checking the YouTube chat
now so cool keep putting in your
sentences that's good feel free to click
like and subscribe as well twenty
seconds left
[Music]
all right let's have a look at this shot
see what's going on
parents have different perspectives on
learning mathematics at schools as to
not be taught I think that was the first
sentence Maria many parents believe that
mathematics should not be taught at
school because it is useless while
others say that it should be included in
the subject whether it is useful in the
future or not good it's probably a
little bit close to the original but
good well done purnima excuse me some
parents believe that mathematics is not
so important in daily life or some think
that it should be a mandatory subject
good mandatory subject I like that
that's a good good way to say that funny
some parents believe it is not essential
to teach mathematics it is not as it is
not of any use in the future while
others think it is a prominent to look
important to learn and becomes the
strong base at tertiary level no it
didn't say that don't mention anything
about tertiary University College were
just rewriting that to say the exact
same thing in different words be careful
when you do that all right so let's push
on we've rewritten the question prompts
now we move to sentence three of the
introduction this is where we tell the
reader what we will tell them what do I
mean by that well we need to as I said
what we need to do is create a broad
background sentence rewrite the question
prompt then we tell the reader what we
will tell them and what we are doing in
effect is becoming from background from
broad right to precise this technically
is called your thesis statement this
says what you will do what do I mean by
that so mine my what tell the reader
what you will tell them this essay will
discuss both sides of the argument in
depth I am NOT giving my opinion I am
NOT giving my opinion because it did not
ask me for my opinion usually what I
would say is this
we'll discuss both sides of the argument
in depth and explain why mathematics is
so important but no we're not doing that
remember all we're doing we're remaining
objective
we're just discussing side one and
discussing side two it's kind of boring
because it's much better to give your
opinion feels good right but not in this
essay so we just tell the reader that
this essay will discuss both sides of
the argument I want you to write your
sentence and I want you to use this
phrase here yes see if you can write
something similar in different words
don't give your opinion
good M Allah wash on YouTube good
sentence therefore is one word however
good Krishna Veni on YouTube excellent
so how many can you're talking about
maths is a boring subject it's not about
being boring it's about being relevant
so you're a little bit off topic there
sorry let me get back to that hanging
out with the YouTube people this essay
will first discuss the reasons why
teaching mathematics is important and
then move on to throw light on the
argument why it is not okay that's fine
Rowley says this essay will discuss both
sides of this controversial issue good
nice Chandra Mohan says let's now
examine both cases in detail it's a
probably a little bit formal to say
let's in an academic essay or in an
essay so how about this essay we'll
discuss both sides in detail or both
aspects in detail good and Jennifer says
this is a we'll just we'll discuss not
would discuss this essay will discuss
that's what it's going to do it will
discuss both sides of the argument in
detail cool bananas we have just written
our introduction my introduction says
this and you can see what I mean when I
say we start broad and then we move in
to be precise background statements let
me do this one by one
background statement or general
statement whether or not to teach
mathematics at school is becoming
increasingly controversial rewrite the
question prompt while some parents think
that learning mathematics is no longer
relevant other parents maintain that it
is an important subject thesis statement
what are we going to do this essay will
discuss both sides of the argument in
what we've done effectively is withdrawn
a funnel gun from broad to precise now
what we do is we're going to move into
our paragraphs and we're going to
discuss both sides of the argument in
depth this is what logic is this is
called essay logic you've probably heard
that before in high school and whatever
but this really is logical this is how
you write a high scoring IELTS essay
it's good to read essays that are
logical it just feels nice
you just think hey that person who wrote
this is a genius because they've just
they've got all their thoughts together
all of their thoughts are coherent
because they've followed this
step-by-step structure suite now we move
on to paragraph 1 how do we write
paragraph 1 well first of all we're
gonna look at side 1 in paragraph 1
we're going to do 4th things we're going
to write four sentences the first of
which we will restate side 1 so what do
I mean by that it just means rewrite
this rewrite this in your own words
again it says some parents believe that
learning mathematics at school is
redundant and should not be taught and
then what I've done is I've just
rewritten that and I've just said there
are a growing number of parents who
believe that mathematics should be
removed as a school subject because it
has become unimportant so these two say
exactly the same thing so the first
sentence of my paragraph one is just a
paraphrase of side 1 and you can see
were synonyms like redundant unimportant
should be removed should not be taught
now there is no synonym for mathematics
you must use the word mathematics some
words have synonyms and you can say them
in different ways some words do not and
mathematics is one of those words that
you must use and you can use it from the
quest
and prompt you don't have to write a
synonym for every word call your turn I
want you to rewrite this sentence here
again but differently than the first
time you have one minute
whoops I gave you what am i doing what
am i doing I'm checking the chats yes I
am no I'm not yes I am what does the
chat say chat says some parents believe
that studying mathematics at school all
is not an essential aspect hence it
should be exempted from the study
subjects okay cool not bad Sam says
nowadays parents believe some parents
some parents believe that learning
mathematics is unimportant for their
children good well done Chandra Mohan
says recently some parents feel that
mathematics is not a significant subject
for educating their children at school
fantastic I've got to say I've got I've
got to say I've I've seen a lot of
people I've seen a lot of essays in my
life as a teacher and I've seen a lot of
bad essays where people would just go
rogue and they'd just write crazy stuff
because well because it's hard essay
writing is genuinely a difficult thing
to do to collect your thoughts and to
write them in a step-by-step fashion
into a logical structure is tough this
structure nails it let's keep going I'm
happy with that well done now we move on
to sentence 2 we need to give a reason
we need to give a reason or reasons
plural more than one so I'm gonna read
the first and the first sentence and I'm
going to show you the reason that I have
given here ok there are a growing number
of parents who believe that mathematics
should be removed as a school subject
because it has become unimportant what's
my reason why whoops whoops that's a bad
question mark why they have reason to
believe that mathematics is no longer
needed as a human skill as it is now
typically done by computers so why do
parents think it should be removed give
one reason mine is that the computers
are increasingly doing the computations
and the calculations what do you think
right your reason
here one minute
cool what have we got here in the chat
some reasons and some reasons to begin
with parents who feel that mathematics
should not be taught believed that the
mathematical subject is unimportant
okay so reasons Susan it is because due
to modern science components like
computers and calculating ends not a
great sentence there's no verb we need a
verb in a sentence galaxy j7 says
because nowadays most of the work in
offices is done by a computer most of
the work in offices we're talking about
mathematics we still need to stick to
the topic of mathematics why is
mathematics unimportant why is it no
longer relative is learning mathematics
no longer relevant in today's society or
for schoolchildren it's a hard reason to
find but what spanning said ponied said
most of parents believe that is relevant
because children use it very little in
their future good yes that's a good
reason
children barely many children barely use
mathematics in their jobs cool that's a
good reason well done now what we do is
we move on to the third sentence where
we give an example now what's the
difference between a reason and an
example well they're pretty similar but
let me show you we need to draw upon our
personal experience perhaps or give some
statistics or something like that so let
me start from the start so I've
rewritten that side 1 there are a
growing number of parents who believe
that mathematics should be removed as a
school subject because it has become an
important reason they have reason to
believe that mathematics is no longer
needed as a human skill as it is now
typically done by computers exact
example everything from simple addition
and subtraction to complex mathematical
equations and now computer operations
that's my example that's my example you
can if you want make this easy for
yourself and just write for example
comma dot dot dot and give your example
you may want to do that or for instance
whoops I've missed my I've missed I've
missed a couple of slides here there you
go that's what happens when you're busy
please write your example sentence you
have one minute
what do we got what have we got in that
shirt what have we got in that shirt we
have a recent study suggests that 90% of
the calculation work is done using
calculators or computers well done
you've made up that statistic and that's
fine it's a that's fine I mean you don't
have access to a library you can't come
up with this stuff if you want to create
some statistical findings or research
findings on test day that's fine well
done that's a good way to do that Herman
for instance one of my friends Jay is
really bad at mathematics that's true
actually one of my friends Jay no he's
terrible at calculations yeah okay
this essay when you win it when it says
draw upon your own experiences it's
probably not a good idea to talk about
your friends you want this to sound more
academic so you could say a professor at
the University of Melbourne says that
most mathematics that children learn is
never used in their careers something
like that so make it a little bit
academic just because it sounds better
and all the examiner will read it and
like it more one more Sam Mazon says for
example high advanced technology are
operating the majority of mathematical
equations so there is no demand to know
the mathematical knowledge good a little
bit of grammar problem but pretty good
pretty good
well done let me go back because we're
going to do sit we're actually onto
sentence four made this presentation a
bit poor we're doing sentence floor
sentence floor sentence four we need to
conclude side one so how do we conclude
side one let's have a look I'm going to
read you my paragraph from beginning to
end we start by rewriting side one there
are a growing number of parents who
believe that mathematics should be
removed as a school subject because it
has become unimportant reason they have
reason to believe that mathematics is no
longer needed as a human skill as it is
now typically done by
peuta example everything from simple
addition and subtraction to complex
mathematical equations and now computer
operations now we've got to conclude
this paragraph these parents have good
reason to believe that mathematics is no
longer a relevant subject in schools
I've just realized I've used this phrase
twice I probably wouldn't do that or try
not to do that
these parents let's just say believe
that's fine that mathematics is no
longer a relevant subject in school so
what I have done is I've concluded this
paragraph with one sentence and it
follows on from this first sentence here
it says sort of a similar thing so let's
see if you can write a nice concluding
sentence what's going on I've forgotten
that one as well no problem oh right
your concluding concluding sentence
please you have one minutes
if you're on YouTube please click like
appreciate it when people click like
more likes the better
cool so how does your concluding
sentence look let's have a look as we
can see this argument has a compelling
reason why mathematics is unnecessary in
schools Herrmann good beautiful well
done
I think useless as a synonym for
redundant useless useless has a sort of
meaning that's a bit not in I suppose a
little bit informal it's a little bit
rude usually it's used to say it's used
with a person you say that person is
useless or this thing is useless so it's
probably not the right synonym for
redundant maybe irrelevant irrelevant
would be a better synonym anyway Ponemah
so parents find mathematics to be
irrelevant due to less usage in the
future go Sam says therefore I like that
these parents strongly believe that
mathematics is not a necessity at
schools anymore beautiful and you know
why I like that because you've said it's
their opinion you're not giving your
opinion you've said these parents
believe that it's not necessary your
opinion in this essay doesn't matter you
don't need to give it cool so what we've
done is we've written a paragraph and
let's go through it sentence by sentence
sentence one we rewrite that background
sentence sentence - what do we do we
give reasons sentence three we give
examples sentence four we conclude
that's what we do and that creates a
beautiful logical structure for your
paragraph let's look at how to write
paragraph two as we saw it's the exact
same structure as paragraph one except
the only difference being that in this
in this paragraph we look at side two
why maths is important or still
important for students and we do the
exact same thing we restate side two we
give reasons give examples and we
conclude so let's have a look at my
oh sorry before we do that let's look at
sign to others parents or other parents
believe that mathematics should remain a
foundational subject whether or not it
is used later in life this is what I
wrote I wrote in contrast to parents who
wish to remove mathematics as a school
subject are those who believe that it is
a fundamental part of learning
despite its usefulness this is a complex
sentence give reasons why is it still
useful why is it why is it still a
fundamental part of learning
despite its usefulness give me a reason
Jay after all mathematics provides
people with a different that's a mistake
a different conceptual way to view the
world give me an example I'm not quite
clear on what you mean for example
knowing how to add subtract and divide
albeit calculations that can be done on
a phone are essential daily skills for
these reasons there are a number of
parents who believe mathematics should
remain I should probably finish this in
the school curriculum something like
that
good I made a little mistake here that's
not too bad you're allowed to make very
minor errors importantly what I have
done is I have followed that structure
I've rewritten side two to say the exact
same thing but I've used my own words
then I've given a reason then I've given
an example and finally I've written a
concluding sentence and that is how you
create a beautiful paragraph so what
I'll do is I'll leave you to write
paragraph two in your own time let's now
have a look at how to write the
conclusion how to write the conclusion
alright now we saw before that the
conclusion is in fact the same as the
introduction since it's one you write a
general statement sentence two you
rewrite the
can prompt in your own words sentence 3
you tell the reader what you told them
so I'll show you how to do this so
there's the question prompts we need to
we need to we need to write this into a
general statement we need to take this
information and write a general
statement regarding learning mathematics
and whether it's still relevant cool so
mine says in fact what I've done
cleverly is a question I've written a
question you can write a question if you
want should mathematics be removed from
a school syllabus this is the first
sentence of my conclusion you can write
a question if you want or you can just
summarize this information into a
sentence a general statement let's see
what you come up with you have one
minutes
what have we got in that chat what have
we got Smith has written a question nice
is studying mathematics essential at
school
Maria's written in conclusion as
mathematics has become a heat in
conclusion mathematics has become a
heated debate among parents on whether
it has to remain in the school
curriculum or not good well done ash
Dita says to conclude both facets of
argument whether to include or exclude
mathematics from school learning have
their compelling reasons both sides of
the arguments have their compelling
reasons don't make it too complex keep
it pretty straightforward fine by the
way while I'm here if you're on YouTube
and you're watching this and you need
help with your IELTS in any way in any
of the test sections I highly recommend
that you check out e to language comm
let me tell you what I mean here let me
just write that on the screen this is a
TV ad that I'm doing and doing a TV at
WWE two language dot-com check this
website out because we give you lots of
different stuff for success like
tutorials and feedback on your writing
and methods lessons and live mock tests
and lots and lots of stuff like grammar
lessons and pronunciation help
everything you need right there check
out that website ok TV ad over let's
move on we've written the first sentence
of our conclusion we now need to rewrite
the question prompt in our own words
what we're doing effectively is
rewriting this now you can write two
separate sentences or you can combine
side 1 and side 2 into a single sentence
this is what I wrote and I wrote two
sentences I said a number of parents
think that mathematics is outdated and
therefore redundant . second sentence
other parents disagree and think that
mathematics is still relevant and
important
so I've rewritten inside one here it is
here I've rewritten side two here it is
here and that is what you need to do for
the second sentence of your conclusion
please write your sentence or sentences
I'll give you two minutes
20 seconds
all right let's have a look at these
sentences yeah Herman despite the fact
that mathematics is claimed to be
irrelevant by some parents others
believe the subject is essential for
their children perfect well they're
really good well done
Susan some parents have have a negative
impression of Matt of learning
mathematics and they believe it is
redundant while others believe that it
is the Moke it that it should be taught
where grandma is a little bit funny
there Susan read me few parents believe
that math does not have much
significance now was it few parents I
don't believe the question prompts in
anything about ratios of who believes
what how many parents believe this and
that we need to be careful we can't say
a few parents believe that maths is in
essential or redundant we don't know and
we don't to make anything up so what
we're doing when we rewrite this is we
rewrite it to say the exact same thing
and all it says is some parents believe
it's redundant some parents believe that
it's still important so we don't want to
say a few parents believe it's redundant
and many parents believe it's still
important but you just want to keep that
information aside and to say some and
some or a lot we can't say a lot because
we don't know the ratios we don't know
all we're doing is rewriting that
question prompt in our own words to mean
the exact same thing that's how you get
a great task response score which I'll
talk about in a minute by the way cool
so we've done that sentence three tell
the reader what you told them so we
learned in the canoe in the introduction
that we tell the reader what we will
tell them now we tell the reader what we
told them here we said this essay will
discuss here we're going to say
something different
hold on for one minute while I turn the
alarm off in my office
and I'm back again sorry about that
okay tell the reader what you told them
tell the reader what you told them now
we were just discussing both sides this
essay discussed past tense this essay
discussed the various reasons why
parents hold these points of view and
whether mathematics should remain a part
of students school studies what I'm
going to do is I'm going to read to this
in context with the whole thing because
it only really makes sense here let me
read you my whole conclusion so I need a
general statement and I wrote a question
should mathematics be removed from a
school syllabus and then I rewrote the
question in my own words a number of
parents think that mathematics is
outdated and therefore redundant that
was side one side two other parents
disagree and think that mathematics is
still relevant and important tell the
reader what you told them this essay
discussed the various reasons why
parents hold these points of view and
whether mathematics should remain a part
of students school studies I did not
give my opinion in that final sentence
that's hugely important because the
question prompt didn't ask me for my
opinion all I said is this essay discuss
the reasons why some parents think that
maths should be in the school curriculum
and why some parents think that it
shouldn't that's all the essay did I'm
telling the reader what I told them in
my introduction paragraph 1 and
paragraph 2 cool let's go back and I
want you to write yours
so I want you to use this phrase here
this essay discussed and then I want you
to tell the reader what you told them
you have one minute
let's have a look this essay discussed a
number of reasons why parents argue with
these points good that's fine
Raji these this essay discussed two
different viewpoints of parents about
mathematics education at school group
muhabba this essay elaborated let's just
stick with discussed because the
question prompt asks you to discuss so
this is a discussed the reasons why some
parents believe that learning
mathematics in school is essential and
why others feel that mathematics should
be eradicated from school studies
removed is a better word than eradicated
Ruchi this essay discussed both points
of view of whether mathematics should be
taught or not in schools in schools know
that just in general go one more Rud me
this essay discussed both points of view
about why some parents feel maths is
insignificant and therefore redundant
while others believe it should be in the
curriculum good well done there good
concluding sentences let's look at what
this whole thing looks like let's just
quickly recap this so here we wrote a
general statement here we talked about
side 1 we rewrote that part but no sorry
here was side 1 first sentence also
second sentence here was side too
basically what we did here is we rewrote
that question prompt in our own words
then we said this is a discussed and
then we told the reader what we told
them cool cool cool so the whole essay
looks like this on test day it has 4
paragraphs each sentence has a purpose
each sentence serves a function because
what we've effectively done is this
we've written an introduction that
mirrors
our conclusion and our conclusion
mirrors our introduction that's good
our introduction links to the first
paragraph and links to the second
paragraph and our conclusion when we
told the reader what we told them links
back to both paragraphs as well finally
and this is important oh what's gonna
happen here I'm going to lose my screen
am i yep what sorry
finally the paragraphs by structuring
your paragraphs like this by having
those three sentences in your paragraph
what we've done is we've created a
really nice little cyclicals structure
for each paragraph so there's a whole
cycle going on here at the macro level
and there's a cycle going on here at the
micro level within the paragraphs so it
was 254 words great we've managed to
reach 200 more than 250 that's all we
needed to do why is it an IELTS 9 I did
notice that the last sentence of my
conclusion wasn't great to be honest so
I would this probably still deserves an
IELTS 9 but the IELTS examiner's are so
straight ridiculously straight
so maybe they'd mark me down and give me
8.5 I don't know anyway I think it
deserves an IELTS 9 why well I wrote on
topic this is the 4 these are the 4
things you need to worry about or think
about not worry about think about you
need to write on topic you need to use
precise vocabulary you need to use
accurate grammar and you need to use a
logical structure these are what the
examiners look for in your writing these
are the criteria this is what you need
to do so if you use this then you will
always write on topic why the
because really what you're doing is
you're just using that question prompt
in every single sentence you're
referring to the question prompt and so
you're never deviating off topic you're
constantly staying off to on topic one
of the biggest I see lots of different
problems in IELTS essays from students
but a really problematic one is when
somebody miss reads the question prompt
and just write an essay that's entirely
off topic for example this one talked
about whether or not mathematics should
be taught in the classrooms right now if
you started to write that science is
more relevant than mathematics in the
classrooms you would get a very low
score for that first criteria you need
to stay on topic you need to use this
structure cool fine next one
vocabulary well here's my introduction
and my first paragraph what have I done
well I've used nice words like the use
of like becoming increasingly
controversial you shouldn't think about
vocabulary as single words try to write
using phrases natural sounding phrases
that's a much better way to score highly
on vocabulary if you just use single big
words because you think they're big and
complex they probably won't make much
sense what English native English
speakers do is we use phrases all the
time they sort of memorized collocations
word combinations for example
increasingly controversial what else we
got no longer relevant there's another
phrase important subject an important
subject there's another phrase discuss
in depth there's another phrase a
growing number of people or scientists
or whatever reason to believe reason to
believe there's another
you can see that my essay is littered
with all of these nice phrases natural
sounding phrases that's what you need to
do that's what you need to start to
focus on cool what about a grammar well
what have I done let's just look at the
verb tenses here is becoming think ears
maintain will discuss are believed be
removed passive sentence has become
present perfect have simple presence
deducted err have good reason I've used
a variety of different verbs I've used a
lot of simple present tense like parents
think parents maintain parents believe
there are these are simple present I've
used present continuous is becoming I've
used present perfect has become I've
used passive sentences mathematics
should be removed rather than people
should remove mathematics so I've used a
variety of verb tenses which is good but
more importantly I've used verb tenses
that are meaningful I've used verb
tenses that convey the right meaning at
the right time to say the right thing
that's tough again if you need help with
this sort of stuff you might want to
take a tutorial check out e to language
com sign up to one of our packages get
some feedback on your writing so you can
learn how to do this last one is the
logical structure and we saw that
structure from the the the the the
beautiful structure that I showed you at
the beginning that is the end of that by
the way if you have any questions put
them in the chat
Ponemah do we have to count words
manually yes if you take the P te you
can see the words because you're typing
in the IELTS you have to actually do
some mathematics
speaking of mathematics a simple way to
do it is you count how many words there
are in one line just on average let's
say there are eight and let's say you
write seven lines so you do seven times
eight so 56 so you can sort of estimate
that your first paragraph will have 56
words ok so you have to do a bit of
mathematics on your page I suggest that
you practice using a pencil and paper
and get a feel for how how long 250
words ears Susan how to divide the 40
minutes timing in a good way it's a
great question because you have 60
minutes total in IELTS writing 20
minutes for writing task 1 and about 40
minutes for writing task 2 now this
structure that I've just showed you you
actually wrote this I gave you 1 minute
per sentence you guys just wrote this
essay in about 22 minutes so I think
about 20 minutes that is phenomenal
that's that the key the key to writing
this in the time given is having a
structure because you don't have to
think you don't have to sit there and
think how am I going to structure this
no it's test day you need to go bang I
know how to write the first sentence
second centers I know how to construct
my paragraphs I know how to construct my
conclusion sentence by sentence then you
can spend your time thinking about
sentence structure thinking about
vocabulary and grammar that's critical
ah
Rowley Xavier sorry if it was rowdy
Raleigh says do we have to intend or
leave indent or leave a line in the real
exam yes leave a line between your
paragraphs leave a line between your
paragraphs
Herman J how about personal experience
does it sound academic such as when I
was a kid yeah yes yes but you need to
phrase it in such a way that it sounds a
little bit more academic for example and
you wouldn't say when I was a kid you
would say my personal childhood
experience or from my personal childhood
experience so yes you can use your
personal experience but you need to say
it in a way that sounds
sophisticated Purnima do they provide
rough notes can we make changes if we
wish to after the writing no your
writing with a pencil it's it's it's not
a keyboard where you can just move stuff
around which makes it so much harder so
you really do need to think before you
write that sentence you know get that
plan that sentence in your head and
write it they give you an eraser but if
you really need to make some big changes
to your structure of your essay it's
hard to do without risking points
initial for general training can I use
easy words less academic uhm yeah sorry
this essay is not academic it's it's
it's it you should write it to be sort
of semi academic it's not an academic
essay tart writing task 2 is the same
for both general and academic so it's
sort of halfway between its it's not
certainly not informal but it's not
really super formal either it's sort of
somewhere in between so try and make it
a bit sort of formal keep it formal keep
it full that's the safest bet that's the
safest bet yeah so punny says is there
any difference for general and academic
writing criteria no the
the same criteria on test day you will
be given different writing tasks ones
Academical to a graph analysis general
will write a letter but writing task 2
will be the same
maybe maybe different question prompt
very similar Jana Francis why do you
know so much J this is what I do for a
job
actually I am the director of teaching
and learning at e2 language this is what
I spend my days doing thinking about
these exams no I personally I love
language I love thinking about language
I love grammar and words and all the
crazy meaningfulness of it all so that's
why I get into this James Wright James
Meza measuring his paragraphs in inches
to see how many words that's interesting
no more questions Prabhakar I heard
essays are scanned and sent to the
examiner as a soft copy and mostly the
examiner would like to read them without
any extra effort is it not better than
to write them using a pen unfortunately
you don't get to choose you just get
given a pencil on test day you can't
bring your own pen so you have to write
using a pencil the gray lead pencil I
know it's crazy but and yes you're right
the exams the essays themselves are sent
scanned and sent to the examiner's by a
soft copy that's right so you need to
write neatly by the way not too crazy
ash did what other task 2 essay type of
questions are there off the top of my
head there's problem-solution
advantages/disadvantages discussion
which we just did here give your opinion
and then just there's a straight
question I think there are five
different months we cover them all at e2
language if you're interested and I will
be covering them all in these next few
webinars Sam how to get better at true
false not given and matching headings
that's a reading question
check out the methods listen Sam and
check out the overview lessons on the
website you'll see them pretty ma when
do we have a listening webinar I might
do that every second Saturday let me
think about that
Chandrashekar how do we improve using
phrasal verbs you can down simply just
type into google list try and look for
academic phrasal verbs academic phrasal
verbs like based on according to these
are nice try to learn those academic
phrasal verbs google that one Herman J
are we given an opportunity to discuss
with examiner's when appealing nor the
IELTS have a closed-door policy they
they I have a funny story about my IELTS
if you're interested check out the blog
look for Jai's IELTS writing disaster I
think it's called I'll let you read it
it's unfortunate okay let's check out
YouTube we're just going to leave that
there YouTube what have we got by the
way thumbs up if you can click like I
would appreciate that enormously any
questions on YouTube any questions on
YouTube parween can you tell us the time
when you'll be online next time I I just
do them randomly if you want to become a
member you can join all of the webinars
okay
okay can you tell us when you will start
the reading section like this writing
task because I really need help in
reading again I just for free members
I'm sorry I just do them randomly if you
want to become an easy language member
you will you will get invitations to all
of the webinars and you'll be inside the
webinar and I can talk to you personally
for YouTube people you just have to sort
of wait until until one comes out I
guess
yes Luka I will put this on II to
language but in the meantime you can
watch this one on YouTube Susan shall we
give an example of any individual person
in an essay yes you can draw upon your
own experiences that's fine guys I'm
gonna leave it there because I am tired
I'm exhausted I'm gonna go home and eat
some dinner thanks very much for coming
along I appreciated enormous they hope
it was helpful
keep practicing use this formula and I'm
sure your scores will improve
you